# SeleniumTestNGFramework

## Framework Overview

This project is a Selenium-based test automation framework designed for testing web applications. The application used for testing is https://magento.softwaretestingboard.com/. The framework utilizes Selenium 4, TestNG and Maven to provide an efficient and modular testing solution. It supports cross-browser testing, data-driven testing, and concise reporting. The framework leverages the Page Object Model (POM) design pattern to enhance code maintainability and reusability.

### Key Features:

- **Cross-Browser Support:** Tests can run on multiple browsers including Chrome, Edge, Firefox and Safari(For mac).
- **Data-Driven Testing:** Use external data (like Excel) for feeding test cases.
- **Custom Reports:** Generates comprehensive reports using ExtentReports for visual analysis of test outcomes.
- **Modular Design:** Ensure maintainability and scalability by following best coding practices.
- **Extensive Logging:** Integrated logging via Log4j to monitor test execution and troubleshoot issues.
- **Parallel Execution:** Tests can be executed in parallel to speed up the testing process.


## Setup Instructions

* To set up the framework, follow these steps:

1. **Prerequisites**:
    - Ensure the following are installed on your machine:
        - Java Development Kit (JDK) 17 or higher
        - Apache Maven
        - An Integrated Development Environment (IDE) such as IntelliJ IDEA or Eclipse(With TestNG)

2. **Copy the Repository**:
   Copy this repository `SeleniumTestNGFramework` to your local machine.

3. **Maven Dependencies**:
   Ensure all necessary dependencies are available by running the following Maven command:
   ```bash
   mvn clean install
   ```
4. **Configure Browser Settings**:
   Modify the browser settings and web application URL in the `src/test/resources/config.properties` file:
   ```properties
   browserName=chrome
   testSiteURL=https://magento.softwaretestingboard.com/
   implicitWait=30
   explicitWait=20
   ```

## How to Run the Tests

### Via IDE:
1. Open the project in your preferred IDE.
2. Locate any of the testng-xml file (for example-> `testng.xml` to run all tests, `testng-smoke.xml` to run smoke tests, `testng-regression.xml` to run regression tests, `testng-parallel.xml` to run all tests parallelly ).
3. Right-click on the xml file and select "Run" . For eclipse, add the testng plugin and run the same xml as testng suite option.

### Via Command Line:
- Navigate to the project directory(On your local machine where you copied the repository) and execute the following command to run all tests:
  ```bash
  mvn clean test -DsuiteXmlFile="testng.xml"
  ```

- To run only smoke tests:
  ```bash
  mvn clean test -DsuiteXmlFile="testng-smoke.xml"
  ```

- To run only regression tests:
  ```bash
  mvn clean test -DsuiteXmlFile="testng-regression.xml"
  ```


## How to View Reports and Logs
- **Test Reports:** After executing the tests, reports will be generated in the `/ExtentReports` directory present at root level of project. The directory name starts with a prefix Current_Test_Results_{Timestamp}. Open the `ExtendReport_{Timestamp}.html` file in your web browser to view the detailed test report.For failed tests, screenshots will be visible in the report.

- **Logs:** Logs generated by Log4j 2 can be found in the `logs` directory at root level of project. These logs provide detailed information about test execution, including timestamps, execution details, threads information and any error messages encountered.Please refer the latest generated log file as per timestamp.New log file is generated on every execution trigger.


## How to Modify Configurations
- **Configuration Parameters:** Edit the configuration settings in the `src/test/resources/config.properties` file. You can change the browser name, the web application URL, and various wait times according to your testing needs.

- **Test Data:** Modify or add test data in the respective data files located in `src/test/resources/testdata`. This can include JSON and Excel files, depending on how you have structured your data-driven tests.

- **Adding New Tests:** To add or modify tests, navigate to the `src/test/java/tests` directory. Create new test classes following the established naming conventions and best practices used in the existing tests.

### Notes:
- On every execution existing extent reports are moved to folder `extentreports/Archived_Test_Results` directory.
- There are some housekeeping utilities created under `src/test/java/housekeeping` directory which can be run directly like java classes.  These utilities are created to clean logs, extentreports directories.